CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Maxwell G <gotmax@e.email>
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
-->

# Contributing

This project's mailing list is [~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht][mailto]
([archives]).

Development, issue reporting, and project discussion happen on the mailing
list.

## Issue Reporting and Feature Requests

Direct these to the mailing list. fedrq has a [ticket tracker][tracker] on
todo.sr.ht, but it's only for confirmed issues.

[tracker]: https://todo.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq

## Patches

Contributions are always welcome!
It is recommended that you send a message to the mailing list before working on
a larger change.

Patches can be sent to [~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht][mailto]
using [`git send-email`][1].
No Sourcehut account is required!

After configuring git-send-email as explained at [git-send-email.io][1]:

[mailto]: mailto:~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht
[archives]: https://lists.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq
[1]: https://git-send-email.io

```
git clone https://git.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq
cd fedrq

# First time only
git config sendemail.to "~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht"
git config format.subjectprefix "PATCH fedrq"

python3 -m venv venv --system-site-packages
. ./venv/bin/activate
pip install -U -e '.[dev]'

$EDITOR ...

./lint.sh
pytest

git commit -a
git send-email origin/main
```

See [git-send-email.io][1] for more details.

If you prefer, git.sr.ht has a webui to help you submit patches to a mailing
list that can be used in place of `git send-email`.
You can follow [this written guide][2] or [this video guide][3].

[2]: https://man.sr.ht/git.sr.ht/#sending-patches-upstream
[3]: https://spacepub.space/w/no6jnhHeUrt2E5ST168tRL


## Linting and Unit Tests

Unit tests are run with `pytest`.
This project uses isort and black to format code, flake8 for linting, and mypy
for type checking.
`reuse lint` is used to ensure that code follows the REUSE specification.
You can install these tools with `pip install .[dev]`
(the `dev` extra includes `lint` and `test` extras)
and then run `./lint.sh && pytest`.

CI also runs a mock build against rawhide.
Use `./srpm.sh` to build an SRPM containing the git HEAD
and then build the resulting SRPM in the usual way.

builds.sr.ht runs CI for patches sent to the mailing list,
but please run the tests locally before submitting your changes.
See the [.builds] directory for the CI workflow configuration.

[.builds]: https://git.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq/tree/main/item/.builds

Commit message:

Remove lint.sh in favor of nox and switch to ruff

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Maxwell G <gotmax@e.email>
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
-->

# Contributing

This project's mailing list is [~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht][mailto]
([archives]).

Development, issue reporting, and project discussion happen on the mailing
list.

## Issue Reporting and Feature Requests

Direct these to the mailing list. fedrq has a [ticket tracker][tracker] on
todo.sr.ht, but it's only for confirmed issues.

[tracker]: https://todo.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq

## Patches

Contributions are always welcome!
It is recommended that you send a message to the mailing list before working on
a larger change.

Patches can be sent to [~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht][mailto]
using [`git send-email`][1].
No Sourcehut account is required!

After configuring git-send-email as explained at [git-send-email.io][1]:

[mailto]: mailto:~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht
[archives]: https://lists.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq
[1]: https://git-send-email.io

```
git clone https://git.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq
cd fedrq

# First time only
git config sendemail.to "~gotmax23/fedrq@lists.sr.ht"
git config format.subjectprefix "PATCH fedrq"

python3 -m venv venv --system-site-packages
. ./venv/bin/activate
pip install -U -e . nox

$EDITOR ...

sudo dnf copr enable -y rpmsoftwaremanagement/dnf5-unstable
nox
nox -e mockbuild

git commit -a
git send-email origin/main
```

See [git-send-email.io][1] for more details.

If you prefer, git.sr.ht has a webui to help you submit patches to a mailing
list that can be used in place of `git send-email`. You can follow [this
written guide][2] or [this video guide][3] for how to use the webui.

[2]: https://man.sr.ht/git.sr.ht/#sending-patches-upstream
[3]: https://spacepub.space/w/no6jnhHeUrt2E5ST168tRL


## Linting and Unit Tests

Unit tests are run with `pytest`.
This project uses isort and black to format code, ruff for linting, and mypy
for type checking.
`reuse lint` is used to ensure that code follows the REUSE specification.
You can run all of these tools using nox. Simply install nox with pip or dnf.

CI also runs a mock build against rawhide.
Run `nox -e srpm` to build an SRPM containing the git HEAD
or run `nox -e mockbuild` to preform a build in mock.

builds.sr.ht runs CI for patches sent to the mailing list,
but please run the tests locally before submitting your changes.
See the [.builds] directory for the CI workflow configuration.

[.builds]: https://git.sr.ht/~gotmax23/fedrq/tree/main/item/.builds
